(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
MAN: Before the world ended.
I could find anything
or anyone anywhere.
Not to brag. but some called me
the world's greatest
treasure hunter.
There was nothing
I couldn't find.
I spent most of my time
underwater...
finding things that had
been lost for centuries.
My work was solitary.
researching and then
setting out on my missions.
But I liked it that way.
I controlled my own destiny
with no one to report to.
But all that changed...
when the solar flare hit.
The world was thrown
into darkness and chaos.
(CROWD CLAMORING)
All modern electronics
were fried.
(GLASS SHATTERING)
Most things didn't work anymore.
People thought the governments
would take charge
and fix things.
(SCOFFS) Wishful thinking.
Warlords seized control
of local governments
and ruled large parts of Europe.
(RIOTERS CLAMORING)
They thought everything
was gonna be fine.
I knew better. of course.
Starving cities
turned into graveyards.
Money was useless.
medicine and fuel
nowhere to be found
and diseases spread.
I guess I was better equipped
for this.
I was a survivor.
And I was soon doing
what I always did.
finding things.
Except now. the world was
a much more dangerous place.
(DISTANT SHOUTING)
(SHOUTING CONTINUES)
(DOG BARKS IN DISTANCE)
(DISTANT GUNSHOT)
(CLAMORING IN DISTANCE)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(MAN SHOUTING ANGRILY
IN DISTANCE)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
-(KICKS DOOR)
-(WINGS FLUTTERING)
(SHATTERS)
(BIRDS' WINGS FLUTTERING)
(DISTANT GUNFIRE)
(MYSTERIOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)
(WOOD CREAKING)
(WOOD SCRAPING)
(EXHALES)
(PIN CLATTERS)
(HEAVY THUD)
Too easy.
(EXHALES)
(SIGHS)
(RUSTLING)
(GRUNTS)
(SWITCH CLICKS)
(EXHALES)
O...
G... I...
E...
A.
(MUTTERS) A. G...
(MUTTERS)
(KEYPAD BEEPING)
G...
(BUZZING)
(EXHALES) A. G. I. O.
-A. D...
-(KEYPAD BEEPING)
G. I. O.
(BEEPING. LOCK CLUNKS)
(MYSTERIOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(INTRIGUING MUSIC PLAYING)
"Adagio."
(VIOLIN CONCERTO No.2
BY MENDELSSOHN PLAYING)
(CHIMING)
(LOCK CLICKS)
(GRUNTS)
(UNLOCKS CASE)
Beautiful.
(MAN WHISTLES. WHOOPS)
(WHOOPING. LAUGHTER)
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
-(MAN CALLS OUT)
-(LAUGHTER)
MAN: There he is.
(MEN CACKLING.
INDISTINCT CHATTER)
All right.
the boys in blue are back.
Hello. mate.
What you doing up here?
Wait a minute.
You guys aren't real cops.
are you?
-(WHEEZES WITH LAUGHTER)
-(MEN LAUGH)
MAN: What's he talking about?
MAN 2: No. sir. (LAUGHS)
What's in the case?
It's like...
I dunno. violin. fiddle.
I don't really
know the difference.
-Why. you play?
-Hand it over.
No. you don't want this.
But I'll give you
what's in this.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
Wash your mouth out
with buckshot.
(MEN EXCLAIM MOCKINGLY)
You won't be able to get us all.
No. that's true. Just you.
And you and you.
Probably get you.
But definitely you.
-Get him. boys.
-MEN: Yeah!
(MEN YELLING)
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(MAN SCREAMS)
-(GUN COCKS)
-(MAN 2 GRUNTS)
Oh! Damn!
(BOTH GRUNTING)
-(CLANGING)
-(GUN COCKS)
(MAN 3 YELLS)
(THRILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
(BLADE SWISHES)
(MAN 4 GROANS)
Shaped charge.
(ENGINE REVVING)
SOLDIER: All clear!
(MACHINES WHIRRING)
(SIGHS)
Why I gotta come
all the way up here?
Hey.
-WOMAN: Did you get it?
-Yeah.
Right where you said it'd be.
We sent out a handful of guys
but they all came back
empty-handed.
Some didn't come back at all.
Stradivarius.
-Brescian period. 1690-1700.
-Hmm.
Beautiful.
King August
has another job for you.
He's. uh... He's a king now?
We feel a monarchy
is the most stable path
to restoring normalcy.
He wants to see you.
Well. I almost got myself killed
fetching that fiddle
for His Highness.
So. no. thanks. I'm gonna go
home and work on my boat.
He's willing to compensate you.
Handsomely.
Enough for your dream boat.
Where's the job?
Across the Channel.
Oh. Nice doing business
with you.
Just think about it. Jake.
-It could be a fresh start.
-If I wanted a fresh start.
I wouldn't shoot myself
in the head to get it.
No. we'll get you there safely.
There's nothing there
but disease and warlords
and EDM. Ew!
No. thanks. It was nice
seeing you. though.
-Jake!
-You look amazing.
And I love the suit.
(ENGINE REVVING)
-He declined.
-(SCOFFS)
-He'd rather work on his boat.
-Hmm.
You believe that?
(SIGHS)
It's a goddamn tragedy.
Let's make Jake an offer.
One he can't refuse.
(ROUSING MUSIC PLAYING)
(GATE LOCKS)
(DOOR SQUEAKING)
-Hey. buddy.
-(DOG WHINES)
(LATCH CLICKS)
Hey. there you are.
Yeah.
I got you mango teriyaki.
your favorite.
(DOG WHINES)
Yeah. Good boy.
Good boy.
How do you like that. boy?
Yeah.
-(GRUNTS)
-(SWITCH CLICKS)
-(ZIPPER UNFASTENS)
-(EXHALES) Yeah.
Perfect. Royal. Yes.
(GRUNTS)
(HOW YOU SELL SOUL?
(BY PUBLIC ENEMY PLAYING)
♪ Banned from our damn
So-called country ♪
♪ No claim. y'all know
The goddamned name ♪
♪ Some got
The rest of the planet ♪
♪ To feel us. damn it ♪
♪ Substance over style
That's right. we on exile ♪
♪ Them ol' heads
From strong out the velt ♪
♪ No love good looking out
But damn sure felt ♪
♪ Hear me. fear me
Appeared to disappear ♪
♪ The sequel said keep PE
From the people ♪
♪ Stole your soul ♪
♪ Kept the groove
On your body black ♪
♪ Now you can't get
Your mind back ♪
♪ Too dirty
For the source power 30 ♪
♪ Too clean for 30 year olds
Who wanna be 16 ♪
♪ I beg your pardon
We be live in other genres ♪
♪ You know what? ♪
♪ While your favorites
Are just starting ♪
♪ We come back
To do a soul check ♪
♪ Every once in a while
Like a sonic ♪
♪ You know what messiah ♪
♪ To find out these cats
Got this thing running wild ♪
♪ Oh. God bless the child ♪
(SONG FADES)
(ETHEREAL MUSIC PLAYING)
-(MUSIC DISTORTS)
-(MAN YELPS)
-(METAL CLANKS)
-(DOG GROWLING)
(MAN GRUNTING. PANTING)
MAN: Don't shoot!
What are you doing here?
The King sent me.
If it's about the job.
tell him I don't want it.
Tell him yourself.
He's waiting for you
in the wrecking yard.
(MAN GRUNTS SOFTLY)
(GROANS. PANTS)
Oi! Can you help me down?
(JAKE EXHALES DEEPLY)
(SOMBER MUSIC PLAYING)
AUGUST: Jake!
Come in. Have a seat.
Sit down. Let's talk.
Humor me.
Tell me. How you do it?
Do what? (EXHALES)
I employ dozens
to do what you do.
But yet you seem to be
the only one
who finds things others can't.
Is it a special skill or gift?
Ah. speaking of gifts.
the Stradivarius...
Ah. it's beyond...
so divine. the music
would make a grown man cry.
Maybe you should start
with food and clean water
before you start building
a symphony.
Think we're not working
on the food shortage. Jake?
Says the man
with a mouthful of steak.
I'm a pescatarian.
You think
fixing this shit's easy?
It's not as simple
as snapping my fingers
and turning the lights back on.
The whole fucking
infrastructure was shot.
We're busting our asses
every day
to rebuild this thing
from the ground up.
despite the efforts of people
trying to stop us.
like General Volkov.
Right. the guy
who wouldn't know culture
if it smacked him in the face.
He's an agent of chaos.
He'd rather see the world burn
and rule the ashes.
And you see yourself
differently?
(CHUCKLES) Cynicism?
Believe me
when I tell you. Jake.
this is not a job I wanted.
When the solar flare hit.
we lost our humanity.
You saw what people did
in the dark.
No one anticipated
the world would burn
as quickly as it did.
People panicked.
Some became barbarians.
Lucky you.
Those ivory towers
that you're building
will keep the barbarians at bay.
And you'll all be safe.
Well. everyone's not as
resourceful as you are. Jake.
They don't have
your skills or grit
to survive in this new world.
They need protection.
Without these walls.
more and more
would have been slaughtered.
What about the ones
outside the wall?
What about the ones hiding?
You gonna let them in too?
All are welcome. Jake.
Even you.
Minister Fuentes tells me
you are reluctant
to cross the Channel.
No. I'm not reluctant. I'm...
I'm dead set against it.
Maybe that's because you
haven't seen the big picture.
(UNEASY MUSIC PLAYING)
I don't wanna see
the big picture.
The big picture is ugly
and cruel.
No.
Not all of it.
We are spending a lot of time
restoring her
to her original beauty.
You'll be a free man. Jake.
Unencumbered.
Answerable to no man.
And all I need is the wind.
To fly away
and leave the bullshit behind.
AUGUST: Hmm.
The people and I want
our world back. Jake.
And what would I be hunting
down for you this time?
(AUGUST EXHALES)
Mona.
The Mona Lisa?
In all her motherfucking glory.
(CHUCKLES)
Hate to break the bad news
to you. Your Majesty.
but Paris was one of
the first cities to burn down.
For sure. For sure.
But here's something
you may not know.
It's that when the flare hit.
the French government
evacuated all
its national treasures
to a secret storage facility.
Everything from fine art
to the president's
porcelain throne.
How am I supposed to get there?
The King's plane
flown by the King's pilot.
And I get the boat?
All the resources
and food you need.
Hell. I'll even
give you a title.
(CHUCKLES)
Okay. well. if Fuentes
is the Minister of Defense
and. uh... and you're the King.
what would you make me?
Motherfucker of
Cultural Appropriation.
(LAUGHS)
-(JAKE GRUNTS)
-(GLASSES CLINK)
(JAKE EXHALES)
-(SIGHS)
-(DOG WHINES)
Hey. buddy. Yeah.
Yeah.
I won't be long. buddy.
Be back before you know it.
-(CAR APPROACHES)
-(DOG WHINES SOFTLY)
(CAR DOOR OPENS. CLOSES)
-How you doing?
-Fine. yeah.
How are you?
I think this is
a really bad idea.
You always seem to
come out on top.
Yeah. if I always
then why am I headed to
the worst place on the planet?
Um. I left plenty of food
and water for Smoke.
Look. will you promise.
if I don't make it back.
you'll take care of him?
I don't have anyone else to ask.
(EXHALES)
I don't think Smoke
likes me very much.
No. I'm not sure
if he trusts you.
(PENSIVE MUSIC PLAYING)
Well. try not to die.
Make sure I make it back.
(EXHALES)
Always.
(CAR ENGINE STARTS)
(ROUSING MUSIC PLAYING)
JAKE: What?
(GRUNTS)
Takes your breath away.
don't she?
Yeah. she's a right sort.
this one.
We're flying in that?
Huh? Yeah.
-Is that safe?
-No. not technically.
-It's got bullet holes in!
-Them?
No. them's from last week.
Little rendezvous with the boys.
Oh.
The King's waiting.
Don't be late.
AUGUST: We'll drop you in
under the cover of darkness.
Now. your insertion point's
here.
Outside this small village.
Now. according to intel.
it's been cleared of rebels.
Now. you'll hump it a little bit
due north to Saint-Quentin.
Now. that's a town
under occupation.
So you got to go in quietly.
Like a whisper.
Like a baby fucking mouse.
Now. make your way
to the city center.
and our rebel liaison
will meet you there.
City center.
This is a big fucking area.
How the hell
am I supposed to find them?
Oh. don't worry about that.
they'll find you.
Now. everything's hush-hush.
on the QT.
Need-to-know basis.
Yeah. I need to know.
You need to know what?
I need to know how the fuck
-I'm getting out of there.
-Oh.
The rebels will contact me
when you've got hands on Mona.
All right?
And I'll drop the equipment
for an AirTEP evacuation
three hours later.
(SNAPS FINGERS)
-Three hours?
-You good?
You know.
the plane's got holes in it.
Never noticed.
Wheels up. 10:00 p.m.
My man.
-(ENGINE IGNITION WHIRRS)
-Ready. Joe.
(ENGINE SPLUTTERS. REVVING)
Right. all set to go.
JAKE: Uh...
All the seat belts are broken.
Ah. not worth the barney. mate.
Strip of nylon's not gonna
help if she goes down. is it?
All right? Here we go.
(ENGINE REVS)
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
Ooh. what's up? What's that?
(AIRPLANE RATTLES. JUDDERS)
Oh. shit. Right.
(BEEPING)
-JAKE: Is everything okay?
-Yeah. yeah.
Er. just doing some sums. Er...
Yeah. I'm not sure
that gauge is working right.
Er. I mean. it's either that
or we're gonna run out of fuel
halfway there.
So probably best to put on
your parachute just in case.
Yeah.
(GRUNTS)
I pull this
to open the chute. right?
Whoa. hold on.
You not done this before?
-(FASTENER CLICKS)
-No.
Oh. fucking amateur.
Yes. that's the cord
that you pull.
When do I pull it?
I dunno. preferably
before you hit the ground.
Relax. Have a kip or something.
I'll take us the scenic route.
yeah?
(PILOT GRUMBLES)
PILOT: (CLEARS THROAT) Relax.
(SERENE MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC SWELLS)
-(AIRPLANE RATTLES)
-Fucking hell. here we go!
We've got a rendezvous
with Volkov's boys.
Come on. then!
Welcome to France. mate.
(GUNFIRE)
Right? Tell you what.
I'm gonna fly us through this.
So gear up.
Probably gonna have to drop
a little bit early.
Got it.
Five minutes
to bees and honey. mate.
Let's make that money.
Right. what I'm gonna
need you to do.
I'm gonna fly us down
to 4.000 feet
and you're gonna have to jump.
right?
Got it.
(GUNFIRE)
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
Good to go.
Red cord. eh?
-Deploy as soon as I open it?
-Yeah.
Oh. I knew this was a bad idea.
(AIR WHOOSHES)
PILOT: Come on.
-You've gotta go!
-(GRUNTS)
(YELLS)
(THRILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
-(BODY THUDS)
-Oh. God!
(EXHALES)
(PANTING) Yeah.
This is definitely a bad idea.
(DOG HOWLS IN DISTANCE)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(ENGINE REVVING)
(TURRET WHIRRING)
MAN: Stay where you are!
(PROJECTILE WHISTLES. EXPLODES)
(REBELS SHOUTING)
(WOMAN SHOUTS IN FRENCH)
(MAN SHOUTING IN FRENCH)
(GRENADE PIN CLICKS)
(WOMAN IN FRENCH)
WOMAN: (IN ENGLISH) Take cover!
MAN: Goodbye and good luck.
They are waiting for you.
Saint-Quentin is west!
(CROWD CLAMORING AND SCREAMING)
SOLDIER 1: Turn around and
show me your fucking head!
(GUNSHOT)
SOLDIER 1: Next.
MAN: Sit the fuck down now.
(SINISTER MUSIC PLAYING)
A worthy opponent
is hard to find.
This game taught me
so many things.
But the most important lesson
is to revere a strong adversary.
-(GUNSHOTS)
-SOLDIER 2: On the ground!
VOLKOV: You see.
I learned how to play
when I was incarcerated.
And prison. by design.
is a gladiatorial arena.
One challenge after another.
a consistent power struggle.
In the beginning.
it was terrifying.
When I found chess.
I discovered something
life changing.
Playing against those
who were better than me
made me better.
I only saw improvement
when my skills were challenged
and that's why
I demand from you...
play your best.
(UNSETTLING MUSIC PLAYING)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
You don't even know
how to play. do you?
(MAN SHRIEKS)
Next.
-Mmm.
-Volkov.
One of our heavy guns fired
on the plane an hour ago.
-What kind?
-Single prop.
Probably the Antonov.
One parachute.
Get word out to every gang.
every informant. every soldier.
A thousand bullets
to whoever finds our visitor.
And let's get the train ready.
How far away is he?
MAN: Eighty kilometers. He was
spotted near Saint-Quentin.
(DISTANT CLAMORING)
(FOREBODING MUSIC PLAYING)
-(GUNSHOTS)
-(CROWD CLAMORING)
SOLDIER: Hold it there!
Come on. move!
-(DISTANT SHOUTING)
-(GUNSHOT)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
SOLDIER: (IN DISTANCE)
Where are you going?
Bring him over here!
(DISTANT GUNSHOT)
(SOLDIER ORDERING IN DISTANCE)
-(SOLDIER SHOUTS IN FRENCH)
-(DISTANT GUNSHOT)
SOLDIER 2: (IN ENGLISH) Quiet!
SOLDIER 3: I said. enough!
-MAN: What are you doing?
-(GUNSHOTS)
SOLDIER 4: Silence. everyone!
Quiet!
Rations will be distributed
for loyal citizens
at 1600 hours.
Curfew will still be enforced.
Evading the rules
of General Volkov
will result in immediate
and severe punishment.
(SOMBER MUSIC PLAYING)
WOMAN: No!
(CROWD SCREAMING)
(WOMAN SOBBING)
SOLDIER: The show's over.
Clear the square.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
SOLDIER: Hey!
Hey!
(JAKE SIGHS)
Uh. hey. guys.
SOLDIER: Drop the bag.
Guys. I don't want any trouble.
Drop the bag.
(ALL GRUNTING)
(THRILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
(YELLS IN PAIN)
(JAKE GRUNTS)
-(SOLDIER 2 YELLS)
-(CRIES OUT IN PAIN)
-(PUNCHES)
-(GRUNTS)
-(GROANS)
-(BLOOD SPLASHING)
(MUSIC FADES)
(PANTING)
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
You're a dead man!
-(BLADE SLICES)
-(BLOOD GUSHES)
I'm guessing you're my contact.
(IN FRENCH)
-Jake?
-Yeah.
I could have taken that guy.
(IN ENGLISH) You're welcome.
If you were here the whole time
why didn't you step in sooner?
Oh. just needed to see if you
could handle what's ahead.
I can handle myself.
I'm Drea. Follow me.
(GRUNTS)
(BLOOD GURGLING)
Oh. that's gross.
DREA: Okay. now that
I've cleaned up your mess.
let's get going
'cause they'll come looking
for those guys.
What. you got a thing
for cutting guys' throats up?
My father was a butcher.
Come on.
-(SPEAKS FRENCH)
-That's not weird at all.
DREA: (IN ENGLISH)
Keep your eyes down.
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(SOLDIERS CHANTING IN DISTANCE)
(SOLDIERS CHANTING)
(SOLDIERS CONTINUE CHANTING)
(CHANTING BECOMES MUFFLED)
(CHANTING RESUMES NORMALLY)
(KNOCKING AT DOOR)
(DOOR SLAMS SHUT)
-This is the guy?
-This is the guy.
He's bleeding.
We should take care of that.
-Welcome.
-JAKE: Thank you.
Would you like something to eat?
-No.
-Something to drink. perhaps?
No. No. thank you.
Father. with all due respect.
I just flew into a war zone.
jumped out of a plane
for the first time.
almost got crushed by a tank.
got attacked by soldiers
while she watched.
So right now I just want
to get to where I'm going.
So if you could just point me
in the right direction.
I'll be on my way.
Patience is a virtue. my son.
First things first.
Dom and Lulu uncovered this map.
They were just executed
in the town square.
I'm sorry. Drea.
May they rest peacefully
in God's infinite love.
This way.
DREA: Go ahead.
-(DOOR CREAKS)
-PRIEST: Get in.
Wow!
That's what I'm talking about.
PRIEST: Over 1.000 horsepower.
-Bulletproofed it too.
-Nice.
(SWEEPING MUSIC PLAYING)
(JAKE GRUNTS APPROVINGLY)
(DREA CLEARS THROAT)
Oh. yes. of course.
(INTRIGUING MUSIC PLAYING)
So-willy?
Souilly.
Wraith territory.
(IN FRENCH)
(IN ENGLISH) What?
Uh... it's just bad luck.
DREA: What is that?
JAKE: Uh. could be a cipher.
PRIEST: I'll pack the truck.
-You patch him up.
-Yeah. sure.
Um. come with me.
(INTRIGUING MUSIC CONTINUES)
-(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
-You like it?
(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
-The mural.
-Oh.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's nice to see some beauty
in all this ugliness.
(DREA CHUCKLES SOFTLY)
Are you really as good
as August says?
What's he say?
Well. that you're his best.
His?
Yeah. No. I'm. uh...
I'm not one of August's
prized possessions.
Well. August holds
a lot of power.
Even all the way over here.
(JAKE SCOFFS)
This? I have nothing to numb it.
-You ready?
-Yeah. (CLEARS THROAT)
-(SOFTLY) Okay.
-(WINCES)
(EXHALES) Well. trust means
more to me than power.
I don't trust August.
Oh. Then why are you here?
I'm asking myself
the same question.
(BLOWS AIR)
(CHUCKLES)
Like everyone else.
August has something you want.
One of his possessions?
Yeah.
Yeah. and you?
Oh. me. I'm just...
just here to make sure you get
from point A to point B.
really.
(INHALES)
-(TRUCK HORN BEEPING)
-(ENGINE RUMBLING)
DREA: Shit. Let's go.
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
TANK COMMANDER:
Surround the church!
SOLDIER: Secure the area!
Go. go. go!
(MOTORCYCLE ENGINES REVVING)
SOLDIER: Cover the entrance!
DREA: Father.
I can't overstate
how important it is
you get there first.
-You're not coming with us?
-No.
We each have our own path
to salvation.
Mine is to buy you both
some time.
And yours is to have faith
in your courage.
Now the whole place
is on lockdown.
Volkov has a tank
on every corner.
You need to get through
the old factory
and reach the Eastern Road.
(SINISTER MUSIC PLAYING)
(TURRET WHIRRING)
Ah. fuck. I love this part.
-Godspeed.
-Thanks. Father.
TANK COMMANDER:
Everybody inside the church
come out immediately with
your hands in the fucking air!
Wonder who that could be.
TANK COMMANDER: Well. come out
wherever you are.
Okay.
Thank you.
I can't wait to see
what comes next.
(SOLEMN MUSIC PLAYING)
(DOOR SQUEAKING)
(DOOR CLOSES)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
Good evening. gentlemen.
A votre sante.
TANK COMMANDER:
We know who you are.
We know what goes on here.
You can't hide anymore. Priest.
I've nothing to hide.
God sees all.
Where are the others?
Others?
There's no one else. Just me.
The only thing they'll find
in there is the Lord's work.
The church is closed right now
but you're welcome to come in
if you wish
to confess your sins.
Ah. I'm an atheist.
-(SOLDIERS LAUGH)
-PRIEST: Oh. of course.
Well. perhaps.
it's just as well.
God's absolution requires
a moral conscience
and a yearning to be better.
Qualities which you clearly
do not possess.
Because you are
part of the darkness
on the face of this world
of suffering.
And you will not prevail.
For what I do now.
may I be forgiven.
SOLDIER: Don't move!
(ENGINE IGNITION WHIRRING)
SOLDIER: Get out of the vehicle!
I want to quote
Revelations 3:57.
(SCREAMS)
(GUNFIRE)
(SOLDIERS GRUNTING)
-(SOLDIER SCREAMS)
-(YELLS)
-(SOLDIER GRUNTS)
-(BLOW THUDS)
(SOLDIERS GRUNT)
(SOLDIER YELLING)
(ENGINE SPUTTERING)
I shouldn't be aroused.
You're flooding it.
Don't flood it.
I'm not flooding it!
Fucking motherfucker!
A fucking priest.
Clearly a fucking priest!
(YELLS)
-You were flooding it.
-Wasn't flooding.
You were.
-Buckle up.
-Yeah. yeah.
(ENGINE REVS)
(RUNNIN' WILD BY AIRBOURNE
PLAYING ON RADIO)
I love this song.
Blast the fucking door!
-(ENGINE REVVING)
-Go!
(SOLDIERS YELLING)
-You're going the wrong way!
-(TANK COMMANDER YELLS)
Fuck! Fuck!
Hold on!
Get after them! Go on!
Did you just jump a tank?
We just jumped a tank.
♪ I ain't comin' back
To you no more ♪
♪ I'm sick of your shit
And your moaning whine ♪
♪ I'm leaving for good
Come rain... ♪
Shit. it's a checkpoint.
-We can't get around it.
-Nope. We're going over it.
(ENGINE REVVING)
SOLDIER 1: Fuck!
(BULLETS RICOCHET)
(SOLDIER 1 GRUNTS LOUDLY)
Shit. it is bulletproof.
♪ You got me runnin'
Wild and free ♪
♪ Runnin' wild and free ♪
Fire!
♪ Whatever it takes
To get to the light ♪
♪ I'm running on rage
I'm outta control ♪
♪ My anger for you
Is like hot burning coal ♪
Hard right! Hard right!
♪ Yeah
You can cry all you like ♪
♪ But it won't change My mind ♪
♪ I gotta get away
Get you outta my life ♪
-Which way?
-Take that tunnel.
♪ Runnin' wild and free ♪
♪ You got me runnin'
Wild and free ♪
♪ Runnin' wild and free ♪
-Oh. shit!
-Go. go!
♪ The open road is all I need ♪
♪ Runnin' wild' Wild and free ♪
♪ It's never gonna be
Like it used to be ♪
♪ Hey. hey. hey ♪
-Jake!
-(ENGINE REVVING)
-(DREA CRIES OUT)
-(TIRES SCREECH)
How many tanks
does this guy have?
(TURRET WHIRRING)
-Jake!
-Oh. shit.
(ENGINE REVVING)
(RAPID GUNFIRE)
(TURRET WHIRRING)
Roll over it.
I've got you.
(GRENADE PIN CLATTERS)
-On our right. On our right!
-I'm not worried about them.
I'm worried about that.
(TIRES SCREECH)
Turn left! Left. left!
(GUNFIRE)
-(TIRES SCREECH)
-(BULLETS RICOCHET)
-Tank!
-I know.
-Jake.
(GUNFIRE)
-Jake!
-I know!
(TIRES SCREECH)
Fucking August!
"Fucking go get the
motherfucking Mona Lisa"
"in all its motherfucking glory."
"Make you a motherfucker
of Appropriation!"
Fuck you. August!
King. my ass!
(BREATHES HEAVILY)
(ROUSING MUSIC PLAYING)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING)
What news
do our rebel friends bring?
Jake and Drea are en route
to Souilly Army Base
where they should complete
the mission.
Sadly.
Father Samson perished
fighting for the cause.
And a noble cause it is.
(CLICKS TONGUE)
May he rest in peace.
Your Majesty.
(FOOTSTEPS RECEDING)
JAKE: Hey.
I got a question for you.
Shoot.
What the fuck is going on
that you guys
are all so willing to die
to help me get this painting?
(SCOFFS) What do you care?
I mean. you're getting paid
your fee either way. right?
I don't get it.
I mean.
it's a beautiful work of art
but all this is a little much.
(EXHALES) Well.
some people like paintings.
some like... sailing boats.
August. (SIGHS)
(DREA CHUCKLES)
Really sorry
about Father Samson.
I knew Father Samson
for a long. long time.
Way before the solar flares.
He made a great sacrifice
for the cause.
Yeah. well.
that was kinda my point.
I mean. all this for a painting?
It doesn't make sense.
It's Volkov.
What's he got to do
with the Mona Lisa?
(SPOON CLATTERS)
Volkov is searching
for the vault too.
and if he gets there before us.
he'll get everything
that's in it.
(SCOFFS) They put a lot more
than art in there.
Food. supplies. weapons.
That...
That's why we need you to...
-To get you in.
-Voila.
Right.
So if we beat him to it.
you get your weapons.
August gets his painting
and I get my boat?
(CHUCKLES) That's right.
(STEAM HISSES)
(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
-Hey. Jake.
-Yeah. hey.
Hey. however this ends.
I really hope you
get what you're after.
I made you this boat.
Thank you. It's beautiful.
My grandma taught me
how to make origami.
We used to make tons of them
and leave them
for others to find.
I also know how to build a bomb
big enough to take out a tank.
(SOFT MUSIC PLAYING)
Wow.
Well. not as pretty
but sadly more useful
these days. I guess.
-Yep.
-(CHUCKLES) All right.
Let's get going.
(ENGINE RUMBLING)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(TRAIN HORN BLARES)
We're approaching the city.
Volkov.
Good.
(VOLKOV GRUNTS)
VOLKOV: What happened
to your shoulder?
We were outnumbered. sir.
Outnumbered and outgunned.
By an old priest?
Some fucking priest. right?
(CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY)
There were others. sir.
VOLKOV: How many?
Two.
But they had
a big fucking truck.
A flying fucking truck.
And you only had a tank
and 20 men.
They took us by surprise. sir.
They came out of nowhere.
A big bastard and a girl...
in a truck headed east.
Anything else?
(CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY)
We got the priest.
Sir. I can still be of service
to you. sir.
You...
You don't need to kill me.
I'm not going to kill you.
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
TANK COMMANDER: Oh. no...
(CROWD SCREAMING)
I've got all informants
with their eyes wide open.
We'll find these guys
soon enough.
VOLKOV: I know.
I know.
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
(GUN CLICKS)
(JAKE EXHALES HEAVILY)
-So-willy.
-Souilly.
Well. if there's a vault
in this base.
it's in one of these buildings.
(DREA CURSES IN FRENCH)
Are you okay?
(IN ENGLISH) No. no. no.
I'm not okay.
This is Wraith territory.
This place gives me the creeps.
What the hell's a Wraith?
(SIGHS) Before the flares.
they were inmates
at a maximum security prison.
They're cannibals.
you understand?
These guys.
they eat what they kill.
JAKE: So let's get in and out
as quickly as possible.
(GUN FIRES)
(FLARE WHOOSHES)
(DREA EXHALES NERVOUSLY)
Well. someone knows we're here.
Yeah. come on.
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
(UNSETTLING MUSIC PLAYING)
(DOOR HINGES SQUEAK)
Hang on a sec.
(DOOR SQUEAKS OPEN)
(TORCH CLICKS)
Oh. merde! We're too late.
(EXCLAIMS IN DISGUST)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(SNIFFS)
No. this door wasn't
blown off recently.
No bullet holes. no damage.
Doesn't look like
they tried to defend it.
Best guess is that they got
everything out of here
and moved it to
a more secure location.
Where'd you get that map?
The base commander's apartment
in Paris.
General Stephane Matteau.
Let's look around.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(JAKE BREATHES HEAVILY)
Looks like they held up here.
(DREA SPEAKS FRENCH)
(IN ENGLISH)
Stephane Matteau. It's him.
Well. if they evacuated.
the base commander would have
kept a record of it.
DREA: Yeah.
Find it. (SIGHS HEAVILY)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC CONTINUES)
(PAGES RUSTLING)
Voila.
(WHISTLING)
(WOLF CALL)
(MAN WHOOPS MANICALLY)
JAKE: (SIGHS) This is in French.
Yeah. yeah.
-(PAGES RUSTLING)
-Okay.
"Altercations. water main broke.
"deuce and a half missing.
"scouts report
Wraiths are massing.
"fires on the ridge line."
"They're coming."
"Evacuating all the valuables"
"to 48 degrees by 58."
Forty-eight by fifty...
(SPEAKS FRENCH)
No way.
-(IN ENGLISH) What?
-It's way too convenient.
There's no way he just left
this here for anybody to find.
-This is a misdirect.
-You think?
Yeah. He definitely would
have encoded this.
Merde. What do we do now?
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Come on. let's hurry up.
(WRAITHS ULULATING)
(YELLING. WHOOPING)
(FERAL CRIES)
JAKE: Yep. it's a cipher.
Read me
the corresponding letters.
In order.
starting with the last two.
Okay. Ready? 48.
34. 58. 05. 57. 35.
"IMSERH."
-Does it mean anything?
-No.
(WRAITHS WHOOPING. HOWLING)
The Wraiths. They're here.
(WHOOPING. HOWLING)
Come on. come on.
We have to hurry up.
Just give me a minute.
DREA: We need to go!
"SIMSERHOF."
Ouvrage du Simserhof.
That's a fort
on the Maginot Line.
It should be somewhere. Voila.
Simserhof. Let's move!
(WRAITHS HOWLING. YELLING)
Jake!
Look. I'm serious.
we've got to go.
(WHOOPING. HOWLING)
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(WRAITHS YELLING)
(GLASS SHATTERING)
(WRAITHS WHOOPING)
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
(TIRES SCREECH)
DREA: Moulin 2.
this is Moulin 1.
Moulin 2. do you read me?
MAN: (OVER RADIO)
Go for Moulin 2.
La Joconde's location
is Ouvrage du Simserhof.
I repeat.
La Joconde's location
is Ouvrage du Simserhof.
(RADIO STATIC HISSES)
MAN: Copy. Moulin 1.
We can have a team
at Simserhof by 1400 hours.
Repeat. We can have a team
Copy. Moulin 2. Moulin 1. out.
Voila.
(TRAIN WHEELS SCREECHING)
SOLDIER: Let's go! Let's go!
Clear the perimeter!
Move it!
Flying truck. my ass!
(STONES CLATTER)
(WRAITH GROANING)
Hmm.
Volkov. look.
VOLKOV: Forty-eight. 58...
We're going to
the Nancy Air Force Base.
(BLOWS AIR)
No. we're not.
We're going to Simserhof.
And we're gonna meet
a very special lady.
Tell the conductor we're taking
the route to the bridge.
Understood.
Well. I think
he wants his reward.
-One thousand bullets.
-(WRAITH COUGHS)
VOLKOV: How many
do you think he deserves?
-Three.
-Agreed.
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
(ENGINE REVVING)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(JAKE EXHALES)
(JAKE GRUNTS)
(JAKE SIGHS)
(EXHALES)
No keypad. no interface.
no biometric scanners.
No handle.
There's a camera there.
And there.
They had to power up
this place somehow.
Look.
(DOOR THUDS)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC CONTINUES)
(GENERATOR WHIRRING)
Something's still running.
DREA: Yeah.
(GENERATOR POWERS DOWN)
Maybe not. (SIGHS)
(TORCH CLICKS)
(GENERATOR POWERS UP)
DREA: Oh.
(TORCH CLICKS)
This is running.
(SPEAKS FRENCH)
(JAKE EXHALES)
Must be getting power
from these solar panels.
(FILES CLATTERING)
-JAKE: Anything?
-Yep.
That humming is part of
the air filtration system
for the vault.
JAKE: Right.
Yeah. that's our way in.
MAN: (OVER RADIO) Moulin 1.
Volkov's heading to you.
Fifty miles out.
I repeat. 50 miles out.
Moulin 1. Copy.
They're close.
Yeah.
these stairs should take me
up to the ventilation shaft.
If I can get in here.
down this shaft
and along this air duct.
then that should take me
right into the vault.
DREA: Okay.
JAKE: If this fan's operational.
we're gonna have to kill it.
And then what?
I'll figure it out.
Let's get to it.
Hey. remember
that service road we saw?
I bet that leads
to the solar panels.
I'll take them out.
All right. let's get to work.
(THRILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
(ENGINE REVS)
(BREATHES HEAVILY)
(VENTILATION MACHINERY WHIRRING)
This'll have to do.
(ENGINE REVVING)
(STRAINING)
(ZIPPER UNFASTENS)
(SIGHS) It's a bad idea.
(PANTS)
(VENTILATION MACHINERY WHIRRING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(SIGHS) Shit.
(VENTILATION MACHINERY WHIRRING)
(WHIRRING)
(ROPE SNAPS)
-Oh. shit.
-(ROPE CREAKING)
(GUN CLICKS)
-(GUN CLICKING)
-Ah. merde!
(WHIRRING)
Ah. shit.
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
(GUN CLICKS)
(ROCKS CRUMBLING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(FAN BLADES STALLING)
(GRUNTS. STRAINS)
-(GRUNTS)
-(ROPE SNAPS)
-(HEAVY THUD)
-(GROANS)
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
(GRUNTS)
-(METAL CLANGS)
-Oh. shit.
It's flooded.
(WATER SLOSHING)
(ENGINE REVVING)
(SIGHS) Fuck you. August.
I knew this was a bad idea.
(WATER SPLASHING)
Minister of Cultural
Appropriation. my ass.
(INHALES DEEPLY)
(BREATHING DEEPLY)
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(GATE RATTLING)
(METAL CREAKING)
(GRUNTING)
-(GATE CLANGS)
-(GASPS)
(PANTING HEAVILY)
(GRUNTS)
Jake?
Jake!
-(METAL CLANGS)
-(EXHALES HEAVILY)
(PANTING)
(COUGHS. CLEARS THROAT)
Fucking knew it.
(GATE WHIRRING)
Jake!
Are you okay? Jake!
JAKE: This is helping people?
DREA: (SIGHS)
I wanted to tell you
but August said
you wouldn't help if you knew.
You're goddamn right.
The U.S. made two atomic bombs
to drop on Japan.
Fat Man and Little Boy.
But there was a third.
set aside for Moscow.
in case the Red Army
didn't stop at Manchuria.
The Mona Lisa.
This bomb was meant to travel
a long way.
so there was
a safety measure added.
Without this plug inserted.
this bomb can't go off.
So August gets the bomb
and you get everything else?
August doesn't want this bomb
to use it.
He just wants to keep it away
from Volkov.
And you believe him?
(SCOFFS) What choice do I have?
You had a choice.
You could've kept me out of it.
But it would've been found.
And you know it. Jake.
I do trust August
just a little more
than I trust Volkov.
They're both a part
of the same hypocrisy.
I trusted you. Drea.
Look.
It might be too late for me
and the life I wanted.
But maybe. just maybe.
by stopping Volkov
someone else
can have that chance.
And how many have to die
while you're trying to stop him?
Jake. wait!
Come on. just...
just stay and fight with us.
Can't you see.
the Volkovs of this world.
they win
when good people do nothing?
They win anyway.
Jake! Jake!
Jake!
(REBELS SHOUTING)
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
(JAKE GRUNTING)
(ENGINE STARTS)
(TIRES SCREECH)
(ENGINE REVVING)
(TIRES SCREECHING)
(MAP RUSTLING)
DREA: Okay. so look at this.
This road leads to Calais.
August has a team there.
And they'll be waiting
to transport
the Mona Lisa
across the Channel.
You got it?
Now this. keep it very safe.
Okay. good luck. guys.
Not your fight. Jake.
Not your fight.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(FOREBODING MUSIC PLAYING)
(MAN SHOUTS INSTRUCTIONS
INDISTINCTLY)
WOMAN: (SHOUTS) Volkov! Volkov!
-(MAN CRIES OUT)
-(GASPS)
(REBELS CLAMORING)
(REBELS GRUNT. YELL)
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
And there she is.
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
SOLDIER:
General. the safety plug.
Isn't it funny?
They locked us up in cages
like the scum of the world
never to see the light again.
But then the light liberated us.
And now we rule their world.
We march to Calais.
The rest we take later.
Let's move!
SOLDIER: Advance!
(ENGINE SWITCHES OFF)
(SIGHS)
(PENSIVE MUSIC PLAYING)
(RESOLUTE MUSIC PLAYING)
Drea?
Drea!
(FAINT COUGHING)
Hey. Hey. Drea.
Hey. Hey.
-Can you hear me?
-Yeah.
(GRUNTS)
Well. you were right.
It was pointless.
You shouldn't have come back.
(JAKE GRUNTS SOFTLY)
I'm sorry I lied to you.
Sorry I dragged you into this.
You didn't drag me
into anything.
You dragged me out.
But we got to get
that bomb back.
It's too late. Jake.
You said you could build a bomb
big enough to
blow up a tank. right?
-What about a train?
-Jake...
The train's headed
back to the city.
To get there
it's gotta cross the bridge.
All right. all I need to do
is get that plug
and make sure
the train doesn't stop.
You just gotta blow that bridge.
That's all?
Look... (SIGHS)
We can do this.
But if we're gonna do it.
we gotta do it now.
-Okay. you ready?
-Yeah.
Let's go. Come on.
Can you walk?
-Yeah.
-All right.
Get her fired up.
I'll be right back.
Okay.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(ENGINE REVVING)
Go. go. go!
-(ENGINE REVVING)
-(TIRES SCREECHING)
What were you doing back there?
(EXPLOSIONS)
(ENGINE ACCELERATING)
Why are we going so slow?
It's dark with low visibility.
I have to take it slow.
Once we're on the straight
away past the bridge.
I'll be able
to pick up the pace.
He's not gonna like that.
I'm doing my best!
(MUTTERS) Asshole.
We are gonna have
a small window of opportunity.
I know.
-We gotta get ahead of 'em.
-Yeah.
(ENGINE REVVING)
There it is.
(TRAIN CHUGGING)
-Take a right at the fork.
-Okay.
Kill the lights.
So?
It is a concern
regarding visibility.
Oh. I don't remember giving
the order to be concerned.
You did not.
But the conductor assures me
he's doing his best.
His best. huh?
I think
he underestimates himself.
I think you're right.
I think he just needs some
help to fulfill his potential.
-Hmm.
-Just like you.
Checkmate.
Again.
(VOLKOV CLEARS THROAT)
I'm going slow because
we're carrying an atomic...
-(ENGINE ACCELERATING)
-That's your full potential.
Drop me at the overpass.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
JAKE: Get to that bridge.
So?
Some people just need
a little push.
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
(PIN CLATTERS)
(SOLDIER YELLS)
(THRILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
-(GRUNTS)
-(BLOW THUDS)
(SOLDIER GRUNTS)
(SOLDIER YELLS)
(METAL CLANGS)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(JAKE GRUNTS)
(MAN YELLS)
Is that what you're looking for?
There she is
and she's not going...
(GROANS)
-(YELLS)
-(THUDDING)
-(DOOR SLAMS)
-(VOLKOV GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
(VOLKOV CHOKING)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
VOLKOV: Mona Lisa is mine!
(VOLKOV GRUNTS)
(YELLS IN PAIN)
(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
(LIGHTER CLICKS)
(WINCES)
(FIZZING)
(VOLKOV YELLS IN PAIN)
The Mona Lisa
is out of your league.
I'm not here for the bomb.
So what are you.
August's assassin?
No. I'm the distraction.
(ROCKS CRUMBLING)
Nice beard.
(STRAINS. GRUNTS)
(CRIES OUT IN PAIN)
Oh. fuck!
(GRUNTING)
Oh. Checkmate.
(DISTANT EXPLOSION)
Jake?
(SHOUTS) Jake?
(SOBBING)
(INHALES. SOBS)
-Jake!
-(EXPLOSION ECHOES)
(SOBS)
-Hey.
-(GASPS)
Jake! (LAUGHS)
-(GROANS)
-What's wrong?
-You okay?
-Yeah. No. I'm okay.
-Are you okay?
-I'm okay.
-(EXHALES)
-Hey. guess what?
What?
-I got this.
-Jake! (LAUGHS)
-(EXPLOSION)
-(DREA MOANS HAPPILY)
AUGUST: Jesus. Jake.
You look like you've been
chewed up. digested
and shit out by the War Machine.
Yeah. sounds about right.
Your fucking Mona Lisa's
at the bottom of a gorge.
I don't know what kind
of shape she's in
but she can't be detonated
without this.
Ah. damn.
Sounds like I gotta find me
a new Motherfucker
of Cultural Appropriation.
Or not. You could just
let it rest in peace.
Oh. no. no. Jake.
You're not naive enough
to believe
there are no more
Volkovs in the world.
No.
No. I just hope
you're not one of them.
Well. guess it's time for you
to sail away. Jake.
Enjoy your little boat.
I gotta build me
a kingdom to rule.
(SWEEPING MUSIC PLAYING)
(PROJECTOR WHIRRING)
(BOTTLES CLINK)
(SERENE MUSIC PLAYING)
(THRILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
(DOOR CREAKS OPEN)
(MUSIC FADES)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(HEROIC MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)